gh-124694: Add concurrent.futures.InterpreterPoolExecutor (#124548)
python/cpython: Doc/library/concurrent.futures.rst

      setting *chunksize* to a positive integer.  For very long iterables,
      using a large value for *chunksize* can significantly improve
      performance compared to the default size of 1.  With

>       :class:`ThreadPoolExecutor` and :class:`ThreadPoolExecutor`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      :class:`ThreadPoolExecutor` and :class:`InterpreterPoolExecutor`,
```

               print('%r page is %d bytes' % (url, len(data)))

InterpreterPoolExecutor
-----------------------

The :class:`InterpreterPoolExecutor` class is a :class:`ThreadPoolExecutor`
subclass that uses a pool of isolated interpreters to execute calls
asynchronously.  Each interpreter has its own GIL, which allows the
executor to side-step the :term:`Global Interpreter Lock

> <global interpreter lock>`.  Interpreters mostly can't share objects

Reviewer: I think it's worth noting here *why* getting around the GIL is a good thing. In my experience, many Python devs don't fully understand what the GIL does to their threads.
```suggestion
<global interpreter lock>`, allowing the use of multiple cores.  Interpreters mostly can't share objects
```

between them, which means that, in most cases, only picklable objects
can be executed and returned.

.. class:: InterpreterPoolExecutor(max_workers=None, mp_context=None, initializer=None, initargs=(), shared=None)

   A :class:`ThreadPoolExecutor` subclass that executes calls asynchronously
   using a pool of at most *max_workers* interpreters.  Each interpreter
   runs tasks in its own thread.

   *initializer* and *initargs* are the same as with
   :class:`ThreadPoolExecutor`, though they are pickled like with
   :class:`ProcessPoolExecutor`.  Additionally, you can pass a script

>    (:class:`str`) for *initiazer*, which will be ``exec``ed in the

Reviewer: Seems to be causing some trouble with Sphinx, but also it's easier to just say executed rather than putting it in the context of `exec`.
```suggestion
   (:class:`str`) for *initiazer*, which will be executed in the
```

   interpreter's ``__main__`` module.  In that case, *initargs* must
   not be passed in.

>    Similarly you can pass a script to :meth:`Executor.submit()`, which

Reviewer: Sphinx lint doesn't like this:
```suggestion
   Similarly you can pass a script to :meth:`Executor.submit`, which
```

>    will be ``exec``ed in the interpreter's ``__main__`` module.  In that

Reviewer: Same here
```suggestion
   will be executed in the interpreter's ``__main__`` module.  In that
```

   case no arguments may be provided and the return value is always
   ``None``.

   :meth:`InterpreterPoolExecutor <Executor.map>` does *not* support
   passing in a script.

   In each of those cases, an uncaught exception from the initializer
   or task is raised as an
   :class:`~concurrent.futures.interpreter.ExecutionFailed` exception,
   rather than the uncaught exception itself.

   *shared* is an optional dict of objects shared by all interpreters
   in the pool.  The items are added to each interpreter's ``__main__``
   module.  Shareable objects include the builtin singletons, :class:`str`
   and :class:`bytes`, and :class:`memoryview`.  See :pep:`734`
   for more info.

   The other caveats that apply to :class:`ThreadPoolExecutor` apply here.

>    .. versionadded:: 3.14

Reviewer: We [recently got](https://discuss.python.org/t/versionadded-next/65280) support for `versionadded:: next`
```suggestion
   .. versionadded:: next
```

               print('%r page is %d bytes' % (url, len(data)))

> InterpreterPoolExecutor
> -----------------------
> 
> The :class:`InterpreterPoolExecutor` class is a :class:`ThreadPoolExecutor`
> subclass that uses a pool of isolated interpreters to execute calls
> asynchronously.  Each interpreter is isolated from the others and thus
> can side-step the :term:`Global Interpreter Lock <global interpreter lock>`,
> allowing the use of multiple cores.  Interpreters mostly can't share
> objects between them, which means that, in most cases, only picklable
> objects can be executed and returned.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
InterpreterPoolExecutor
-----------------------

The :class:`InterpreterPoolExecutor` class, a :class:`ThreadPoolExecutor`
subclass, uses a pool of isolated interpreters to execute calls
asynchronously.  Since each interpreter is isolated from the others,
side-stepping the :term:`Global Interpreter Lock <global interpreter lock>` ,
multiple cores can be used.  Since Interpreters do not share
objects between them, in most cases, only picklable
objects can be executed and returned.
```

.. class:: InterpreterPoolExecutor(max_workers=None, thread_name_prefix='', initializer=None, initargs=(), shared=None)

   A :class:`ThreadPoolExecutor` subclass that executes calls asynchronously
   using a pool of at most *max_workers* threads.  Each thread runs
   tasks in its own interpreter.

>    *initializer* may be a callable and *initargs* a tuple of arguments,
>    just like with :class:`ThreadPoolExecutor`.  However, they are pickled
>    like with :class:`ProcessPoolExecutor`.  Likewise, functions (and
>    arguments) passed to :meth:`~Executor.submit` are pickled.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   An *initializer* may be a callable and *initargs* a tuple of arguments,
   similar to the behavior of :class:`ThreadPoolExecutor`.  Additionally, they are pickled
   like with :class:`ProcessPoolExecutor`.  Likewise, functions (and
   arguments) passed to :meth:`~Executor.submit` are pickled.
```

Author: This motivated me to add a bit more clarity in the docs. 😄

   .. note::
      functions defined in the ``__main__`` module cannot be pickled
      and thus cannot be used.

>    *shared* is an optional dict of objects shared by all interpreters
>    in the pool.  The items are added to each interpreter's ``__main__``
>    module.  Not all objects are shareable.  Those that are include
>    the builtin singletons, :class:`str` and :class:`bytes`,
>    and :class:`memoryview`.  See :pep:`734` for more info.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   *shared* is an optional dict of objects shared by all isolated interpreters
   in the pool.  The *shared* items are added to each interpreter's ``__main__``
   module.  Not all objects are shareable.  Shareable objects include
   the builtin singletons, :class:`str` and :class:`bytes`,
   and :class:`memoryview`.  See :pep:`734` for more info.
```

Author: I made use of your suggestions.  Thanks!

>    You can also pass a script (:class:`str`) for *initiazer* or to

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   You can also pass a script (:class:`str`) for *initializer* or to
```

I noticed one small thing. I'm looking forward to using subinterpreters!

Author: fixed

>    You can also pass a script (:class:`str`) for *initializer* or to

Reviewer 2: Perhaps add a brief sentence of why using a script would be desired.

Author: I'm going to drop this capability for now.

Author: done

>    You can also pass a script (:class:`str`) for *initializer* or to

Reviewer 4: Eric, can we pass a function? We could either pickle it or capture a "path" to it (concatenate `__module__` and `__qualname__` and import)

I really don't like the aspect of passing code as strings.

Author: Yeah, it supports passing any callable that can be pickled.  Passing a script is an *extra* capability of InterpreterPoolExecutor.

Reviewer 4: I'd remove the code as string capability -- otherwise this all looks good to me!

Author: I'll drop it.  I can look into adding that capability in separately later.

Author: done

   :meth:`~Executor.submit` (but not to :meth:`~Executor.map`).
   In both cases, the script will be executed in the interpreter's
   ``__main__`` module.  The executor will automatically apply
   :func:`textwrap.dedent` to the script, so you don't have to do so.
   With a script, arguments must not be passed in.
   For :meth:`!Executor.submit`, the return value for a script
   is always ``None``.

   Normally an uncaught exception from *initializer* or from a submitted

>    task will be sent back between interpreters to be raised as is.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   task will be sent back to be raised as is.
```

   However, in some situations the exception might not be suitable to be
   sent back.  In that case, the executor raises an
   :class:`~concurrent.futures.interpreter.ExecutionFailed` exception
   instead, which contains a summary of the original exception.

>    The other caveats that apply to :class:`ThreadPoolExecutor` apply here.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Other caveats from parent :class:`ThreadPoolExecutor` apply here.
```

   .. versionadded:: 3.7

.. currentmodule:: concurrent.futures.interpreter

.. exception:: ExecutionFailed

   Raised from :class:`~concurrent.futures.InterpreterPoolExecutor` when
   the given initializer fails or from
   :meth:`~concurrent.futures.Executor.submit` when there's an uncaught
   exception from the submitted task.

>    .. versionadded:: 3.14

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   .. versionadded:: next
```
